RTCStatsReport - make this the center of statistics docs (#27028)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/rtcstatsreport/index.md

{{APIRef("WebRTC")}}

> The **`RTCStatsReport`** interface of the [WebRTC API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API) provides a statistics report for a {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}}, {{domxref("RTCRtpSender")}}, or {{domxref("RTCRtpReceiver")}}.

Author: Feels repetitive, since this is in the description, but I accept the argument that it makes the interface you see immediately afterwards more digestible. I don't particularly like the way we separate Description out, for exactly this reason.

> I wish we had some definition for map-like that we could link to, even if just a glossary definition.

We can create a glossary if we can find someone to explain how map-like differs from "Map". I _suspect_ it just means that the object has exactly the same characteristics and API as Map, but is not derived from it, and is typically specialized in terms of the objects it can work with.

However there might be some nuance to this. Is there someone you think we might ask?

> The **`RTCStatsReport`** interface of the [WebRTC API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API) provides a statistics report for a {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}}, {{domxref("RTCRtpSender")}}, or {{domxref("RTCRtpReceiver")}}.

Reviewer: We talked about maplike and setlike today, and think it could be a Q3 project to explain them consistently, and find a place to talk about them.

For "someone we might ask", I'd say: let's make PRs to add glossary entries, and hope the reviewers know what to do :). I think we can cobble together something coherent, given https://webidl.spec.whatwg.org/#dfn-maplike.

> The **`RTCStatsReport`** interface of the [WebRTC API](/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_API) provides a statistics report for a {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}}, {{domxref("RTCRtpSender")}}, or {{domxref("RTCRtpReceiver")}}.

Author: It turns out we can https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/27160

## Instance methods

- {{domxref("RTCStatsReport.entries()")}}
  - : Returns a new Iterator object that contains a two-member array of `[id, statistic-dictionary]` for each element in the `RTCStatsReport` object, in insertion order.
- {{domxref("RTCStatsReport.forEach()")}}
  - : Calls `callbackFn` once for each key-value pair present in the `RTCStatsReport` object, in insertion order.
    If a `thisArg` parameter is provided to `forEach`, it will be used as the `this` value for each callback.
- {{domxref("RTCStatsReport.get()")}}
  - : Returns the statistics dictionary associated with the passed `id`, or `undefined` if there is none.
- {{domxref("RTCStatsReport.has()")}}
  - : Returns a boolean indicating whether the `RTCStatsReport` has a statistics dictionary associated with the specified `id`.
- {{domxref("RTCStatsReport.keys()")}}
  - : Returns a new Iterator object that contains the keys (ids) for each element in the `RTCStatsReport` object, in insertion order.
- {{domxref("RTCStatsReport.values()")}}
  - : Returns a new Iterator object that contains the values for each element in the `RTCStatsReport` object, in insertion order.

> - {{domxref("RTCStatsReport.[@@iterator]()")}} {{ReadOnlyInline}}

Author: @wbamberg I can't get link to the `@@iterator` method to work so I did not submit a doc for this. The only example I could fine was MediaKeyStatusMap and that doesn't work either - i.e. breaks the build.

Author: Fixed this.

> - [`RTCStatsReport.[@@iterator]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCStatsReport/@@iterator) {{ReadOnlyInline}}

Author: No good reason

```suggestion
- [`RTCStatsReport.[@@iterator]()`](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCStatsReport/@@iterator)
```

  - : Returns a new Iterator object that contains a two-member array of `[id, statistic-dictionary]` for each element in the `RTCStatsReport` object, in insertion order.

## Description

An `RTCStatsReport` {{jsxref("Promise")}} is returned from the {{domxref("RTCRtpReceiver.getStats()")}}, {{domxref("RTCRtpSender.getStats()")}} and {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection.getStats()")}} methods.
Calling `getStats()` on an {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}} lets you specify whether you wish to obtain outbound statistics, inbound statistics, or statistics for the whole connection.
The {{domxref("RTCRtpReceiver")}} and {{domxref("RTCRtpSender")}} versions of `getStats()` only return inbound and outbound statistics, respectively.

> The statistics report is a read-only [`Map`](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map)-like object: an ordered dictionary, where the properties are `id` strings that uniquely identify the WebRTC object that was inspected to produce a particular set of statistics, and the value is a dictionary object containing those statistics.

Author: Yes. The id is not inferrable though, so it is only useful once you have a report you want to compare over time. I will think on this.

The different categories of statistics that are collected are reported using different dictionary objects, as listed [below](#the_statistic_types).

> All the dictionary types have an `id` property, a string that uniquely identifies the object that was inspected to produce the current dictionary, a `type` string that can be used to identify the particular category of statistic, and a high resolution `timestamp` that allows comparison over time (and averaging) of statistic values.

Author: Yes. And as you noted, we might expand on these here.

The `RTCStatsReport` can be iterated in the same ways as a `Map`.
In order to find a particular set of statistics users can filter by inspecting the `type`.
Media sources additionally have the property `kind`, which is used to differentiate between video and audio sources.

> ### The statistic types

Author: Note that this is the current set of statistics. I took it from https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/WebRTC_Statistics_API stripping out all the ones that are not in the spec.

@wbamberg From what I can tell the WebRTC stats API has gone though so much churn in recent times that there is no point trying to keep any of the legacy information. We should just try to update it to what it is now, and proceed further with that baseline.

Author: Good. We agree.

| `remote-inbound-rtp`  | {{domxref("RTCRemoteInboundRtpStreamStats")}}                            | Statistics describing the state of the inbound data stream from the perspective of the remote peer.                                                                                                        |
| `remote-outbound-rtp` | {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats")}}                           | Statistics describing the state of the outbound data stream from the perspective of the remote peer.                                                                                                       |
| `transport`           | {{domxref("RTCTransportStats")}}                                         | Statistics about a transport used by the connection.                                                                                                                                                       |

## Examples

> ### Iterate report from an RTCPeerConnection using forEach loop

Author: FWIW all the examples are similar because they are all ways of iterating the map and checking against type. We should revisit this later with a few more interesting examples - looking at real statistics - that would show off things like taking averages as I did in the peer connection stats.

Don't want to do that until I have a better idea of what you can do with stats.

This example logs video-related statistics for the local {{domxref("RTCRtpReceiver")}} responsible for receiving streamed media.

The code first creates an `RTCPeerConnection`, uses `await` to wait for the statistics report, and then iterates it using {{domxref("RTCStatsReport.forEach()")}}.
It then filters the dictionaries for just those reports that have the `type` of `inbound-rtp` and `kind` of `video`.

```js
myPeerConnection = new RTCPeerConnection(pcOptions);
const stats = await myPeerConnection.getStats();

stats.forEach((report) => {
  if (report.type === "inbound-rtp" && report.kind === "video") {
    // Log the report
    Object.keys(report).forEach((statName) => {
      console.log(`${statName}: ${report[statName]}`);

>     });

Author: Good idea. I did think about this and decide it was useful to show iterating the object - but we do that in the following example too, so being specific here is good.

  }
});
```

### Iterate report from an RTCRtpSender using a for loop

This example shows how you might iterate the outbound statistics from an {{domxref("RTCRtpSender")}}.

The code follows a the same pattern as the previous example, but iterates using a `for`-loop on the {{domxref("RTCStatsReport.values()")}}, and filters on the `type` of `outbound-rtp`.
It assumes you already have an `RTCRtpSender` object named "sender".

```js
const stats = await sender.getStats();

for (const stat of stats.values()) {
  if (stat.type != "outbound-rtp") continue;
  Object.keys(stat).forEach((statName) => {
    console.log(`${statName}: ${report[statName]}`);

>   });

Author: As above, I'd like on of these cases to show iterating all the values.

| `remote-inbound-rtp`  | {{domxref("RTCRemoteInboundRtpStreamStats")}}                            | Statistics describing the state of the inbound data stream from the perspective of the remote peer.                                                                                                        |
| `remote-outbound-rtp` | {{domxref("RTCRemoteOutboundRtpStreamStats")}}                           | Statistics describing the state of the outbound data stream from the perspective of the remote peer.                                                                                                       |
| `transport`           | {{domxref("RTCTransportStats")}}                                         | Statistics about a transport used by the connection.                                                                                                                                                       |

## Examples

### Iterate report from an RTCPeerConnection using forEach loop

> This example logs video-related statistics for the local {{domxref("RTCRtpReceiver")}} responsible for receiving streamed media.

Author: ```suggestion
This example logs shows how you might log video-related statistics for the local {{domxref("RTCRtpReceiver")}} responsible for receiving streamed media.
```

The code first creates an `RTCPeerConnection`, uses `await` to wait for the statistics report, and then iterates it using {{domxref("RTCStatsReport.forEach()")}}.
It then filters the dictionaries for just those reports that have the `type` of `inbound-rtp` and `kind` of `video`.

```js
myPeerConnection = new RTCPeerConnection(pcOptions);
const stats = await myPeerConnection.getStats();

stats.forEach((report) => {
  if (report.type === "inbound-rtp" && report.kind === "video") {
    // Log the report
    Object.keys(report).forEach((statName) => {
      console.log(`${statName}: ${report[statName]}`);
    });
  }
});
```

### Iterate report from an RTCRtpSender using a for loop

This example shows how you might iterate the outbound statistics from an {{domxref("RTCRtpSender")}}.

> The code follows a the same pattern as the previous example, but iterates using a `for...of`-loop on the {{domxref("RTCStatsReport.values()")}}, and filters on the `type` of `outbound-rtp`.

Author: ```suggestion
The code follows a similar pattern to the previous example, but iterates using a `for...of`-loop on the {{domxref("RTCStatsReport.values()")}}, and filters on the `type` of `outbound-rtp`.
```

Calling `getStats()` on an {{domxref("RTCPeerConnection")}} lets you specify whether you wish to obtain outbound statistics, inbound statistics, or statistics for the whole connection.
The {{domxref("RTCRtpReceiver")}} and {{domxref("RTCRtpSender")}} versions of `getStats()` only return inbound and outbound statistics, respectively.

The statistics report is a read-only [`Map`-like](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map) object: an ordered dictionary, where the properties are `id` strings that uniquely identify the WebRTC object that was inspected to produce a particular set of statistics, and the value is a dictionary object containing those statistics.
A `RTCStatsReport` can be iterated and used the same ways as a read-only `Map`.

The report may contain many different categories of statistics, including inbound and outbound statistics for both the current and remote ends of the peer connection, information about codecs, certificates and media used, and so on.
Each category of statistic is provided in a different type of statistics dictionary object, which can be identified from its [`type`](#type) property.

> ### Common instance properties

Author: @wbamberg OK, so this adds a specific section in description about the instance properties, as you suggested in https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/27028/files#r1213871272

It makes clear that you probably use `type` to find your stat of interest, and can subsequently use the `id` to track change. 
This could do with an example, but it is pretty hard to test stuff. So for now I have not done one.

If I was to, I might expand the example here: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCAudioSourceStats#examples
Showing how you calculate the audio level across a timeslice.
